# Electricity Statistics Datasets

## Summary
This dataset is prepared for Project Assignment for Environmental Data Analytics (ENV 872L) at Duke University, Spring 2024

The dataset contains electricity consumption data from TEIAS (Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation) in Turkiye from 1999 to 2022.

Generation and consumption data are generated by regular data collection from substations and power plant operators. The data is acquired automatically from the points where TEIAS’ existing measurement systems (National Power Quality System, Automatic Meter Reading System) when available, otherwise manual data entry is used. 

Instantaneous peak value refers to the maximum value of gross electricity consumption at a time within the desired time interval. The unit is MW and is available in minute time resolution. Hourly Peak value refers to the maximum value of gross electricity consumption at a hour within the desired time interval. The unit is MWh and is available in hourly time resolution.

## Database Information

Data were accessed 2024-04-04.

Date: year

Download the zip files for the respective years at https://ytbsbilgi.teias.gov.tr/ytbsbilgi/frm_istatistikler.jsf. 


## Data Content Information

The column named 'Electricitygro' includes the change in electricity consumption data compared to the previous year.

The electricity was generated mainly by natural gas, imported coal and hydro storage during 1999-2022 period. In recent years, the share of the renewable energy sources like wind and solar energy started to increase but still they are not the main sources. 

## Additional Information and Support
For more information, please contact the data assembler, **Merve Onal** (merve.onal@duke.edu)